Python library for the Pololu DRV8835 Dual Motor Driver Kit for Raspberry Pi Model B+
Version: 1.0.0
Release Date: 2014-08-18
"www.pololu.com":http://www.pololu.com/

h2. Summary

This is a library written in Python that interfaces with the "Pololu DRV8835 Dual Motor Driver Kit for Raspberry Pi Model B+":http://www.pololu.com/product/2753.  The library allows you to write a Python program that runs on the "Raspberry Pi Model B+":http://www.pololu.com/product/2752 and controls the speed of boths motors.  This library supports both Python 2.7.x and Python 3.2.x.

Programs that use this library will need to be run as the root user so they can access the GPIO pins.

h2. Getting Started

h3. Installation

This library depends on "WiringPi":http://wiringpi.com/ and "WiringPi2-Python":https://github.com/Gadgetoid/WiringPi2-Python.  The instructions below explain how to install these prerequisites.

These instructions assume you are using Raspbian, Debian, or some other distribution that provides the @apt-get@ command for managing packages.  If you do not have @apt-get@, you will need to use a different method to install the required packages.

These instructions also assume you will use Python 2.7.x.  If you want to use Python 3.2.x, you will need to replace @python@ with @python3@ in the names of the @apt-get@ packages below and use the @python3@ command for running Python scripts.

First of all, you should install git so you can easily download the source code of the required libraries.  You can make sure git is installed by running:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install git
</pre>

Next, to download and install WiringPi, run the following commands:

<pre>
git clone git://git.drogon.net/wiringPi
cd wiringPi
./build</pre>

To download and install WiringPi2-Python for Python 2.7.x, run:

<pre>
git clone https://github.com/Gadgetoid/WiringPi2-Python.git
cd WiringPi2-Python
sudo apt-get install python-dev python-setuptools
sudo python setup.py install</pre>

To download and install the pololu_drv8835_rpi library for Python 2.7.x, run:

<pre>
git clone https://github.com/pololu/pololu-drv8835-rpi-python.git
cd pololu-drv8835-rpi
sudo python setup.py install</pre>

h3. Running the example program

This library comes with an example program that drives each motor in both directions.  To run the example, navigate to the pololu-drv8835-rpi-python directory and run:

<pre>
sudo python example.py</pre>

h2. Library reference

This library uses ultrasonic 20&nbsp;kHz PWM to drive the motors.

Motor speeds in this library are represented as numbers between *-480* and *480* (inclusive).  A speed of 0 corresponds to braking.  Positive speeds correspond to current flowing from M1A/M2A to M1B/M2B, while negative speeds correspond to current flowing in the other direction.

The library can be imported into a Python program with the following line:

<pre>
from pololu_drv8835_rpi import motors, MAX_SPEED</pre>

After importing the library, you can use the commands below to set motor speeds:

- @motors.setSpeeds(m1_speed, m2_speed)@: Set speed and direction for both motor 1 and motor 2.
- @motors.motor1.setSpeed(speed)@: Set speed and direction for motor 1.
- @motors.motor2.setSpeed(speed)@: Set speed and direction for motor 2.

For convenience, a constant called @MAX_SPEED@ (which is equal to 480) is available on all the objects provided by this library.  It can be accessed in the following ways:

- @motors.MAX_SPEED@
- @motors.motor1.MAX_SPEED@
- @motors.motor2.MAX_SPEED@

If you are controlling multiple motor drivers, you might prefer to import the library using @import pololu_drv8835_rpi@, which requires the commands listed above to be prefixed with @pololu_drv8835_rpi.@.

h2. Version history

* 1.0.0 (2014-08-18): Original release.
